>> Kent C. Dodds: So
the next thing that I wanna jump into is,
I skipped over this earlier.
And I think that it's probably still
relevant to everybody so I wanna take
a quick break into, from exercises in
coding and talk about code coverage.
So this project is keeping
track of code coverage, and
we're not gonna talk about how to
configure tools to make that happen.
We'll do that tomorrow
in the React workshop.
But suffice it to say that most tools
in the JavaScript ecosystem are using
the same code coverage reporting tool and
that's called Istanbul.
And those tools will create
a coverage directory with
an lcov-report inside of there.
And that's actually just this little tiny
web app thing, not really a web app,
it's just a website, for your,
to report your code coverage.
So you can actually pull that up in
the browser if you run Open, Coverage,
lcov-report, Index.html, then you
get this beautiful coverage report.
How many people have seen this before?
Okay, a handful of you.
So here at the bottom it
says generated by Istanbul,
you can click on that to learn more
about what Istanbul is all about.
It's pretty cool.
So let's take a look at some
of the server side stuff.
If we look at our controllers,
we're in server source controllers.
These are actual files that have
various levels of coverage.
If it's all red that means
it's not covered at all.
So here let's take a look at one
that has a little bit of coverage.
So the highlighting here is
indicating what lines of code have
been run during the test run.
So what this means is, and
here is a spoiler alert, don't look, but
what this means is that
during the test run,
I actually never ran
this authorize function.
And so what that can indicate to me is
that this authorized function might work,
might not.
It might actually even have a very
obvious error where it's trying to access
a property that doesn't exist or anything.
There's no way for our test to tell us
that because this code is never run.
And so that's what the code coverage
report is trying to communicate to us.
And then for statements here,
we have this e next to the if,
that means that alts cases is
never covered for this statement.
And we see that alt statements never run.
Here, we see the if cases
never run in this situation.
So we are testing the update
user function but
we're not testing what happens if
that user isn't authorized to update.
And so this can give us a good
idea of what areas of our code
base are not tested.
And what's more important than figuring
out what areas of our code base
are not tested is determining what
use cases are not being tested?
What used cases are you not supporting?
Because maybe we have this,
this educates here, and
get users where there are no users.
But that pretty much never ever happens.
And so we only really care about this.
If there are no users, and that's probably
indicative of some other bigger problems.
So we don't really care to
take any time to cover that.
I'm not suggesting that's
a real world situation, but
in general we should think
critically about this code coverage.
One mistake that I've
seen teams make is and
I've actually seen this more from
management than software developers.
But creating a mandate that you
have to have 100% code coverage.
That's a very bad idea for
application development.
Because what winds up happening is you
have this curve of the value that the code
coverage provides to you as you go up
the code coverage percentage chain.
So after a certain point that really
kind of depends on your used cases and
things, there´s a huge amount
of diminishing returns.
And certainly I feel pretty safe to
say that in almost all applications,
the 100% code coverage, you've long
passed the point of diminishing returns.
The last 10% of code coverage,
the tests you have to write to get
that last 10% are really finicky,
hard to maintain.
They have to do really weird hacks,
you have to start changing your
source code to expose certain hooks
that only are useful for your tests.
Certain things like that.
So driving your tests by your code
coverage exclusively, it's a bad idea.
Another thing that the code
coverage report doesn't
tell us is will getting
coverage here will give me
the same boost as if I were
to put my coverage work here?
I do it one place, I do it in the other,
I'm gonna get the same
boost to my code coverage.
They don't give me the same boost in my
confidence or in what actually matters, so
maybe getting coverage here
isn't really a huge deal,
but I'm still gonna get that
boost in code coverage.
So the code coverage report
is just telling you, and
this is what I'm really
trying to get across.
The code coverage report is only
telling you what code has been ran
during your test.
It's not trying to make any suggestion on
where you need to start writing tests,
or what use cases you're
missing necessarily.
It's just telling you
what use cases you're,
or what code you're not actually
running during your test.
So does anybody have questions
about code coverage,
yes?
>> Speaker 2: So during lunch we we're
talking about basically
regularity of the tests.
And finding the right balance between
testing very fundamental assumptions
in your codes versus testing the thing
that has all kinds of dependencies.
And in the process of testing
at a higher level component,
you're essentially testing whether
all those subcomponents or
those dependencies work.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kent C. Dodds: That's applicable
here, yeah.
So that's a good question, so
at what point do you test?
I could test this authorize function
by itself, I could expose it and
then test it by itself.
But it's actually maybe being used
in the route for registration.
And so should I test the authorized
function in isolation, or
should I just test the registration or the
log in, and then I'll get that coverage.
So you're gonna get
coverage in both places.
So I would suggest the basic principle for
testing,
as I said earlier,
the more your tests resemble the way your
software is used the more
confidence they can give you.
That principle shouldn't
be treated as dogma either.
There are trade-offs with if you consider,
okay, what if I'm in a world where people
are plentiful and
time is plentiful as well?
The best way to test your software would
be to have people go through manually
every flow in your software and make
sure that everything is still working.
The problem is, that takes too long.
Humans are actually error prone and
so you do wanna automate that.
But yeah, so maybe automating that process
of clicking through your whole app,
that's what we call an end-to-end task.
And those would be great but
there are trade-offs with that as well.
They take a long time,
they're kinda flaky, finicky,
and sometimes they can be
pretty hard to maintain.
There are resource incentives.
So there are trade-offs at every level,
and so
the actual decision of where you
focus your time and your tests.
And whether or
not we should test this in isolation, or
if we should test it as part of
an integration test or an end-to-end test.
You need to develop an intuition about
that, but just keep in mind the idea,
the closer your tests resemble
the way your software is used,
the more confidence they'll give you.
And so if you can,
reasonably cover this code in a way that's
closer to how the software is used
then that's generally better.
I'll talk a little bit more toward the end
about this subject, I have some more
specific guidance, but hopefully that
kind of helps answer your question there.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: So jumping off that,
coverage tells you which functions
have been touched during tests.
Is there any tooling
to many different ways
to invoke a function you know,
different parameters?
Is there any way to, like kinda gauge how
well each function is exercised?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, yeah, so
what you're talking about is, I don't
know if this is an official word for
it, but I call it data coverage.
I can call this authorized function or
maybe a better example
would be our sum function.
So I can call the sum function with a
number, what happens if I pass at nothing?
What happens if I pass at a string?
What happens if I pass at
more arguments or whatever?
And so as far as I'm aware there's no tool
that can give you that kind of coverage.
However, static type checking
tools do have mechanisms for
telling you how well your
types are covering your code.
And so those can help you with that.
And it actually,
by using a static type checker you kind of
remove that category of concern
from your application so
you don't really need to worry about it.
Good question.
But that said you also have a situation
where yes this accepts this string but
what happens if it's
a really really long string?
Or something like that.
You can't really get that
from a type checker either.
So at some point, having some sort of
data coverage would be kind of cool, but
I'm not aware.
You could build it,
that'd be awesome, yeah.
That's a fun thing about software
is we can solve our own problems.
Is anyone curious to see how this
code coverage report is generated?
I can show you in just a really
quick demo what things look like.
So the Istanbul, the code coverage tool,
I'm pretty sure it
use to use some really weird regex
stuff to put things in place.
Now it's actually just a Babel plugin.
It's very cool and there's actually a
front end masters course where I show you
how to make custom Babel plugins.
I did that last year,
it's pretty fun stuff.
But this is a utils file from
one of my open source projects.
I copied this a while back so
it might be a little different.
Just some regular functions,
we export all of these things.
So here's how Istanbul keeps
track of what lines are run,
what functions are run,
ternaries, all that stuff.
It converts your beautiful,
let's see, how long is this file?
309-line file to a 2945-line file.
Most of that is taken up by this enormous
object [COUGH] up here at the top.
That has an entry for every single line,
function, branch, everything.
So here we have all
the statements in a code.
Here's the first statement.
It starts on line 3, column 16,
and ends on line 3 column 17.
It uses that so it knows where to
highlight things that aren't covered.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Clarify, is that gem,
what we're starring at,
that object, is that generated?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, and
it happens in memory,
you don't type this out.
And yes, this happens in memory as well.
So like you never
actually see these files.
I just made it for you because I care.
So then we have the same thing for
functions.
We have a map of every function,
what it's called,
where the declaration starts and ends,
where the whole function exists.
And then we have branches.
Those are if statements,
ternaries, switch statements.
This is where all those start.
This one's interesting because
you have multiple locations for
these different branches.
Often you'll have like the consequence and
the alternate for like an if statement.
And then we have a record of how
many times that statement or
that function or that branch is run.
And so once we have all that established,
then we take that variable and
we increment every single one of these
records anytime a statement is run.
And this is actually using a not so
commonly used, and for
good reason,
the comma operator in JavaScript.
So this is the original source code,
it's ID counter =1.
Now ID counter = ( increment
this statement, and then 1.
And the comma operator just says okay,
whatever comes after this.
It's like, ignore the first thing,
this is what the evaluation of this
expression should evaluate to.
So that's kind of fine, and then we've
got the same thing for ternaries, and for
functions, and statements here.
And it just kinda messes up our code in
terrible ways, but in reliable ways so
that our tests will operate the same,
whether we're recording coverage or not.
So anyway, the reason that I wanna
show you this is just so you have
an understanding of what's going on under
the hood for generating code coverage.
In addition to what the value of code
coverage brings to your application.
It does bring value but
it shouldn't be taken as
an indicator of something that it's not.
It shouldn't be taken as
an indicator of confidence,
it should really be taken as an indicator
of what lines have been run,
what functions have been run,
what happened.